---
title: 5. Setting up encrypted off-site backups
author: scottyob
type: post
date: 2011-04-04T13:16:54+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=104
categories:
  - FileServer
  - nerd
tags:
  - backups
  - GPG
  - NFS

---
<p style="clear: both">
  If there is one thing that makes any systems administrator shudder, it&#8217;s the thought of loss of data. What happens when the worst happens and something goes wrong with your FileServer? What happens when that overdue tornado rips through your datacenter or workplace and you&#8217;ve lost not only all those redundant RAID drives, but all external hard disks &#038; tape backups?
</p>

<p style="clear: both">
  The backup method I propose (and will be using for my home FileServer project) is a form of encrypted off-site backup. Space is cheap with providers these days. A quick look at <a href="http://www.rsync.net/" onclick="javascript:_gaq.push(['_trackEvent','outbound-article','http://www.rsync.net']);">http://www.rsync.net/</a> will show how cheap space is. Or you can always host with a cheap web hosting company like DreamHost and use some of the space given there as off-site backups.
</p>

<p style="clear: both">
  When suggesting such cheap encryption methods, there are a few things that&#8217;ll come out as prerequisites for our storage and transmission methods.
</p>

<p style="clear: both">
  <a href="http://duplicity.nongnu.org/" onclick="javascript:_gaq.push(['_trackEvent','outbound-article','http://duplicity.nongnu.org']);">Duplicity</a> is a backup tool I&#8217;m going to be trialing to do my off site backups. It&#8217;s a GNU tool that provides a number of advantages over other encryption techniques
</p>

<ul style="clear: both">
  <li>
    Encryption using GPG
  </li>
  <li>
    Differential Bakcups (takes full backup the first time it&#8217;s ran, then only the diffs from the files that have changed after saving bandwith.
  </li>
  <li>
    can be done over scp, no special tools required
  </li>
</ul>

**Installing the required Software**  
Before we can go ahead and use Duplicity to do encryption and backup, we&#8217;ll need to compile and install it for the box. I&#8217;ve decided to use CC (Oracle Solaris Studio C++ Compiler) for the job. To find out what package it&#8217;s in, I ran

<blockquote style="clear: both">
  <p style="clear: both">
    # pkg search -r CC
  </p>
</blockquote>

<p style="clear: both">
  to do a package search and found pkg install sunstudio12ul@12.1.1-0.111 to be as good as a package to use as any.
</p>

<p style="clear: both">
  Once I installed the Sun Studio package, the fun began of compiling duplicity. (pretty easy really, extract, ./configure, make, make install.. if you really struggle with this, just shoot me an e-mail and I&#8217;ll help you out)
</p>

<p style="clear: both">
  For generating the keys used for encryption, we&#8217;ll be using GPG.
</p>

**Setting up a GPG Key**  
As mentioned, this encryption method works by the use of GPG, so our first step is setting up a GPG key for use with the encryption. Some would argue it&#8217;s bad to have the key sitting on my FileServer but honestly, if the FileServer gets compromised in any way, the enemy has got all my data anyway.

<p style="clear: both">
  <p>
    <br class="final-break" style="clear: both" />
  </p>
